Adding How-To Guides (#3069)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/participate/report-issue.adoc

---
layout: project
title: Issue Reporting
section: participate
tags:
  - developer
  - testing
  - contributing
---

> NOTE: This page is under development, there will be more content added soon.
> See the jira:WEBSITE-662[] EPIC for tasks related to this page, contributions are welcome!
> 

Reviewer: This page is complete with this change.  Nicely done!  We'll still accept pull requests to improve it, but the content is strong and worth describing as "done".
```suggestion
```

== How-To Report an Issue

The Jenkins JIRA is not a support site. If you need assistance or have

> general questions, visit us https://jenkins.io/chat/[in chat], or email

Reviewer: Use local reference here as well.
```suggestion
general questions, visit us link:/chat/[in chat], or email
```

[[Howtoreportanissue-Beforereportingabug]]
=== Before reporting a bug

* First, *search for the error message or general problem description*.
This can help you find solutions if it's actually e.g. a configuration
problem, or point you to earlier reports in case you're not the first
one experiencing this problem. You can
http://issues.jenkins-ci.org/secure/IssueNavigator.jspa[use the search
in the issue tracker], or use web search.
https://stackoverflow.com/tags/jenkins[Stack Overflow] may also be a
good place to search. Any results will often point you to earlier issue
reports if it's really a bug. You can then _watch them_ and _vote for
them_ in JIRA. Voting helps us determine the impact of bugs and
prioritize them. _If you have doubts that the problem you're
experiencing is the exact same one as you found, prefer to file a new
issue (and mention the one(s) you found in the description)._
* *Make sure that the problem actually is with Jenkins*. If your build
seems to fail for no reason, try to build your project outside Jenkins,
but in the same general environment (e.g. same machine, same user
account, ...). If Jenkins interacts with other systems, make sure that

> they're working. If the connections between Jenkins master and slaves

Reviewer: ```suggestion
they're working. If the connections between Jenkins master and agents
```

fail, make sure the network is reliable.
* *Check the changelogs* to see whether the issue has been fixed in
newer versions of the affected component.

> For Jenkins itself, the link:/changelog-stable/[long term support changelog], the link:/doc/upgrade-guide/[upgrade guide], and the link:/changelog/[weekly changelog] is http://jenkins-ci.org/changelog[here].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Jenkins itself, review the link:/changelog-stable/[long term support changelog], the link:/doc/upgrade-guide/[LTS upgrade guide], and the link:/changelog/[weekly changelog].
```

If you believe the problem to be in a plugin, review the changelog for the specific plugin on the link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/[plugins site].  The plugin documentation can also be reached
directly by clicking the plugin name in _Manage Jenkins_ » _Manage Plugins_ » _Installed_.
If you're still unable to resolve the problem and cannot find existing
issue reports or related fixes in newer versions of Jenkins or the
plugins, file a *bug* in link:https://issues.jenkins-ci.org/[JIRA].

[[Howtoreportanissue-Beforerequestinganimprovementorfeature]]
=== Before requesting an improvement or feature

> * Check whether newer versions of Jenkins or the plugin in question have
> been released. They may have the feature already!

Reviewer: Following the same pattern of bold text for the key phrase as is used in the next bullet item and in the preceding bullet items
```suggestion
* *Check newer versions of Jenkins or the plugin* for this feature.
They may have the feature already!
```

* *Search JIRA for existing requests* for this feature. You can then
_watch them and vote for them_. Voting helps us determine the demand for
requests and prioritize them, so it's in your interest to actually find
these rather than reporting a duplicate.

If you cannot find anything, file an *improvement* or *new feature*
request in link:https://issues.jenkins-ci.org/[JIRA].

Searching for existing issues makes it easier
for us to deal with issue reports and shows which
issues are considered important by the community by the number of voters
and watchers.  It increases the likelihood of related changes.
It's not that obvious when an issue has been reported separately several
times with only a few watchers each.

[[Howtoreportanissue-Creatingtheissue]]
== Creating the issue

> You need to https://jenkins-ci.org/account/[register an account] if you

Reviewer: Let's use the jenkins.io URLs where ever we can
```suggestion
You need to https://accounts.jenkins.io/[register an account] if you
```

** _Jenkins_ for general issues with Jenkins,
** _Security Issues_ if you want to report a security issue privately,
or
** _Infrastructure_ if you're reporting a bug with the Jenkins web site,
wiki, or any other services run by the Jenkins project.
* Enter a short but meaningful description of your problem as *Summary*.
* For *Priority*, see
https://issues.jenkins-ci.org/secure/ShowConstantsHelp.jspa?decorator=popup#PriorityLevels[here]
for descriptions of the levels. *This is not how urgently* *_you_* *want
it fixed*. Try to be realistic: Most bugs should be Minor or Major
priority. If you found a workaround, reduce the priority, even if it's a
severe problem otherwise.
* As *Component*, select _core_ if it's a problem with Jenkins itself
and not any of the plugins. Otherwise, select the name of the plugin;
all of them should have a related component. You can also select
multiple components e.g. if the problem is in the interaction of the
components, or when you're not sure.
* Leave the *Assignee* field to automatic.

[[Howtoreportanissue-WhatinformationtoprovideforEnvironmentandDescription]]
=== What information to provide for Environment and Description

Much of the advice on

> http://www.catb.org/esr/faqs/smart-questions.html[How To Ask Questions

Reviewer: Skip the preface material on the "How to Ask Questions" page.
```suggestion
http://www.catb.org/esr/faqs/smart-questions.html#intro[How To Ask Questions
```

everything on that page is a good place to start. Another option would
be to install the
link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/support-core/[Support Core
Plugin], which allows downloading zip files from Jenkins that contain
information relevant for investigating bug reports.

'''''

The *Description* should be comprehensive to allow others to understand
the problem or improvement request immediately. A few suggestions on
what to include (again, mostly applicable to bug reports):

* Did the issue *occur after an upgrade* of Jenkins or any plugins? If
so, what was/were the previous version(s), what is/are the current
version(s)? Does downgrading resolve the issue? For plugins, the
previous versions can often be seen in Plugin Manager (where it offers
to downgrade to the previous version).
* Include *log output and stack traces* of error messages from the UI or
any client programs.
* Provide a *complete step-by-step description of how to reproduce the
problem*. We cannot see your screen, so be comprehensive. Consider
switching the Jenkins UI to English by changing your web browser's
configuration to get the labels right.
* If possible, provide information on the *circumstances* the issue

> occurs with (or doesn't), e.g. "only when starting the slave via SSH",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
occurs with (or doesn't), e.g. "only when starting the agent via SSH",
```

"only when using Tomcat as container", etc. – this may be some work, but
it'll make reproducing and fixing the issue much easier!
* Does the issue occur with a new Jenkins installation not reusing any
old configuration or data? *Try to reproduce the problem with a pristine
Jenkins installation* with as little customization as possible.
* If the problem occurs in *interaction with other systems* (e.g. SCM),
include their version and other relevant configuration.
* If the Jenkins UI no longer responds, *get a thread dump* using e.g.
(on Linux) `+kill -3 <Jenkins PID>+` or `+jstack -l <Jenkins PID>+`.

[[Howtoreportanissue-Aftercreatingtheissue]]
== After creating the issue

Once you've created an issue, make sure to *respond to requests for
additional information* in a timely manner, otherwise your issue may be
resolved as Incomplete.

If you reported a regression in Jenkins (i.e. a bug that appeared after
updating Jenkins itself), consider

> http://jenkins-ci.org/changelog[leaving *community feedback* on the

Reviewer: Use site local link
```suggestion
link:/changelog[leaving *community feedback* on the
```

problem, or point you to earlier reports in case you're not the first
one experiencing this problem. You can
http://issues.jenkins-ci.org/secure/IssueNavigator.jspa[use the search
in the issue tracker], or use web search.
https://stackoverflow.com/tags/jenkins[Stack Overflow] may also be a
good place to search. Any results will often point you to earlier issue
reports if it's really a bug. You can then _watch them_ and _vote for
them_ in JIRA. Voting helps us determine the impact of bugs and
prioritize them. _If you have doubts that the problem you're
experiencing is the exact same one as you found, prefer to file a new
issue (and mention the one(s) you found in the description)._
* *Make sure that the problem actually is with Jenkins*. If your build
seems to fail for no reason, try to build your project outside Jenkins,
but in the same general environment (e.g. same machine, same user
account, ...). If Jenkins interacts with other systems, make sure that
they're working. If the connections between Jenkins master and slaves
fail, make sure the network is reliable.
* *Check the changelogs* to see whether the issue has been fixed in
newer versions of the affected component.

> For Jenkins itself, the lnk:/changelog-stable/[long term support changelog], the link:/doc/upgrade-guide/[upgrade guide], and the link:/changelog/[weekly changelog] is http://jenkins-ci.org/changelog[here].

Reviewer: Sorry, I made a typo on this line.
```suggestion
For Jenkins itself, the link:/changelog-stable/[long term support changelog], the link:/doc/upgrade-guide/[upgrade guide], and the link:/changelog/[weekly changelog] is http://jenkins-ci.org/changelog[here].
```

If you believe the problem to be in a plugin, review the changelog for the specific plugin on the link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/[plugins site].  The plugin documentation can also be reached

> directly by clicking the plugin name in _Manage Jenkins » Manage Plugins » Installed_.

Reviewer: Rather than placing underscores under the entire breadcrumb string, try using 
```suggestion
directly by clicking the plugin name in _Manage Jenkins_ » _Manage Plugins_ » _Installed_.
```

This can help you find solutions if it's actually e.g. a configuration
problem, or point you to earlier reports in case you're not the first
one experiencing this problem. You can
http://issues.jenkins-ci.org/secure/IssueNavigator.jspa[use the search
in the issue tracker], or use web search.
https://stackoverflow.com/tags/jenkins[Stack Overflow] may also be a
good place to search. Any results will often point you to earlier issue
reports if it's really a bug. You can then _watch them and vote for
them_ in JIRA. Voting helps us determine the impact of bugs and
prioritize them. _If you have doubts that the problem you're
experiencing is the exact same one as you found, prefer to file a new
issue (and mention the one(s) you found in the description)._
* *Make sure that the problem actually is with Jenkins*. If your build
seems to fail for no reason, try to build your project outside Jenkins,
but in the same general environment (e.g. same machine, same user
account, ...). If Jenkins interacts with other systems, make sure that
they're working. If the connections between Jenkins master and slaves
fail, make sure the network is reliable.

> * *Check the changelogs* to see whether the issue has been fixed in
> newer versions of the affected component. For Jenkins itself, the
> changelog is http://jenkins-ci.org/changelog[here]. Select "Upcoming
> changes" to view changes that have been implemented but not yet
> released. If you believe the problem to be in a plugin, go to the
> plugin's
> https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/Plugins#Plugins-Pluginsbytopic[wiki
> page] to see its change log. The plugin's wiki page also be reached
> directly by clicking the plugin name in _Manage Jenkins » Manage Plugins
> » Installed_.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Check the changelogs* to see whether the issue has been fixed in
newer versions of the affected component.
For Jenkins itself, the lnk:/changelog-stable/[long term support changelog], the link:/doc/upgrade-guide/[upgrade guide], and the link:/changelog/[weekly changelog] is http://jenkins-ci.org/changelog[here].
If you believe the problem to be in a plugin, review the changelog for the specific plugin on the link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/[plugins site].  The plugin documentation can also be reached
directly by clicking the plugin name in _Manage Jenkins » Manage Plugins » Installed_.
```

```suggestion
* *Check the changelogs* to see whether the issue has been fixed in
newer versions of the affected component. For Jenkins itself, the
changelog is http://jenkins-ci.org/changelog[here]. Select "Upcoming
changes" to view changes that have been implemented but not yet
released. If you believe the problem to be in a plugin, go to the
plugin's
https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/Plugins#Plugins-Pluginsbytopic[wiki
page] to see its change log. 

```

If you're still unable to resolve the problem and cannot find existing
issue reports or related fixes in newer versions of Jenkins or the

> plugins, file a *bug* in JIRA.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
plugins, file a *bug* in link:https://issues.jenkins-ci.org/[JIRA].
```

[[Howtoreportanissue-Beforerequestinganimprovementorfeature]]
=== Before requesting an improvement or feature

* Check whether newer versions of Jenkins or the plugin in question have
been released. They may have the feature already!
* *Search JIRA for existing requests* for this feature. You can then
_watch them and vote for them_. Voting helps us determine the demand for
requests and prioritize them, so it's in your interest to actually find
these rather than reporting a duplicate.

If you cannot find anything, file an *improvement* or *new feature*

> request in JIRA.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
request in link:https://issues.jenkins-ci.org/[JIRA].
```

> [.aui-icon .aui-icon-small .aui-iconfont-warning .confluence-information-macro-icon]#

Reviewer 2: This does not show up in a traditional view file on github.Maybe it will show up on the website.

> [.aui-icon .aui-icon-small .aui-iconfont-warning .confluence-information-macro-icon]#
> #
> 

Reviewer: Is visible when rendered in the page in my development environment, but does not make sense.  Recommend removing it.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/156685/80031781-6c52ec00-84a7-11ea-8568-53990a4feb8e.png)

```suggestion
```

> That you're searching for existing issues doesn't just make it easier
> for us to deal with any issue reports, but it will also show which
> issues are considered important by the community by the number of voters
> and watchers (and therefore increase the likelihood of related changes).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Searching for existing issues makes it easier
for us to deal with issue reports and shows which
issues are considered important by the community by the number of voters
and watchers.  It increases the likelihood of related changes.
```

* For *Project* select:
** _Jenkins_ for general issues with Jenkins,
** _Security Issues_ if you want to report a security issue privately,
or
** _Infrastructure_ if you're reporting a bug with the Jenkins web site,
wiki, or any other services run by the Jenkins project.
* Enter a short but meaningful description of your problem as *Summary*.
* For *Priority*, see
https://issues.jenkins-ci.org/secure/ShowConstantsHelp.jspa?decorator=popup#PriorityLevels[here]
for descriptions of the levels. *This is not how urgently* *_you_* *want
it fixed*. Try to be realistic: Most bugs should be Minor or Major
priority. If you found a workaround, reduce the priority, even if it's a
severe problem otherwise.
* As *Component*, select _core_ if it's a problem with Jenkins itself
and not any of the plugins. Otherwise, select the name of the plugin;
all of them should have a related component. You can also select
multiple components e.g. if the problem is in the interaction of the
components, or when you're not sure.
* Leave the *Assignee* field to automatic.

[[Howtoreportanissue-WhatinformationtoprovideforEnvironmentandDescription]]
=== What information to provide for Environment and Description

> [.aui-icon .aui-icon-small .aui-iconfont-warning .confluence-information-macro-icon]#

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> #

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Much of the advice on
http://www.catb.org/esr/faqs/smart-questions.html[How To Ask Questions
The Smart Way] also helps you write great issue reports.

*Environment* is mostly relevant for bug reports: What is the
configuration experiencing the issue? Depending on the type of problem,
the following are often relevant:

* *Operating System* (including version, and whether it's 32/64 bit) of

> all systems involved (your client's, the Jenkins server's, all slave

Reviewer: We're continuing our efforts to replace the term 'slave' with the term 'agent'.
```suggestion
all systems involved (your client's, the Jenkins server's, all agent
```

nodes'),
* All relevant *JRE/JDK vendors and versions* (e.g. Oracle JRE, OpenJDK,
...) and the parameters set.
* *Jenkins and plugin versions*,
* Whether you're *running Jenkins directly or in a container* like
Tomcat (which one, in which version?)
* Whether Jenkins is accessed through a *reverse proxy* (if so, how is
it configured?)
* *How you installed Jenkins* (Windows installer, deb/rpm, ...), and

> *how you're launching any involved slave nodes* (via SSH, web browser,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*how you're launching any involved agents* (via SSH, web browser,
```

command line, ...)
* *Your web browser* (+ version). Make sure the issue occurs on

> https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Browser+Compatibility+Matrix[supported

Reviewer: ```suggestion
link:/doc/administration/requirements/web-browsers/[supported
```

web browsers].

If this is too much information for the Environment field, just put some
of it into the description.

Every Jenkins installation has the `+/systemInfo+` URL with information
about Jenkins. If you're not sure what information to provide, copying
everything on that page is a good place to start. Another option would
be to install the

> https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Support+Core+Plugin[Support Core

Reviewer: ```suggestion
link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/support-core/[Support Core
```

Author: replaced wiki page with link to plugins site
